# DS4002 Project 3- Images

Goal: We aim to use a dataset with images of trees with labels of their species in order to train a model to accurately classify images of such trees to their species (through testing). We will then use personal pictures of trees from on grounds to further test this model further on its accuracy in identifying the species of a tree. 

## Software and Platform ##

This project uses a variety of software. The scripts you will find in this repository are is primarily written in Jupyter notebooks and python scripts. Since we utilize Python as the main programming language, the packages we used are also python packages including the following: Numpy, Pandas, and Matplotlib. All outputs are reproducable and were generated by running the scripts in the SCRIPTS directory. 

## A Map of Documentation
```
DS4002_PROJECT3/
│
├── DATA/
│   └── tree/
│       ├── train/   (training data organized by tree type folders)
│       ├── val/     (validation data organized by tree type folders)
│       └── test/    (testing data organized by tree type folders)
│
├── OUTPUTS/
│   └── (Generated files: plots, processed datasets, results)
│
├── SCRIPTS/
│   ├── download_data.py
│   └── eda_plots.py
│   └── Analysis_Final.ipynb
│
├── Tree_Photos/
│   └── (The pictures we had taken of trees in Charlottesville)
│ 
├── README.md
│ 
└── LICENSE
```
## Instructions for Reproducing Results

In order to reproduce these results, please take the following steps:
- Anything you will run will be in the SCRIPTS directory so please navigate there:
```
cd SCRIPTS
```
- First, you must download the required dataset into the DATA directory. This will be needed and please do not skip this step! Please run the following commands from the SCRIPTS directory:
```
python download_data.py
```
After this, you should see the data set split into three directories within the DATA directory: test, train, and val.
- In order to produce the inital EDA plots, please run the following commands from the SCRIPTS directory:
```
python eda_plots.py
```
The above commands will generate plots that you will find in the OUTPUTS directory.
- In order to produce the results from the analysis, please "run all" for Analysis_Final.ipynb in the SCRIPTS directory.





